=Bitmark Improvement Proposals=

People wishing to submit BIPs should first propose their idea or document to the [mailto:devteam@bitmark.io devteam@bitmark.io] mailing list. After discussion, please open a PR. After copy-editing and acceptance, it will be published here.

We are fairly liberal with approving BIPs, and try not to be too involved in decision making on behalf of the community. The exception is in very rare cases of dispute resolution when a decision is contentious and cannot be agreed upon. In those cases, the conservative option will always be preferred.

Having a BIP here does not make it a formally accepted standard until its status becomes Final or Active.

Those proposing changes should consider that ultimately consent may rest with the consensus of the Bitmark users (see also: [https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Economic_majority economic majority]).

==BIP Index==

===Core Protocol (100-199)===

{| class="wikitable sortable" style="width: auto; text-align: center; font-size: smaller; table-layout: fixed;"
!Number
!Layer
!Title
!Owner
!Type
!Status
|- style="background-color: #cfffcf"
| [[bip-0100.mediawiki|100]]
| Consensus
| Bitmark Original Design - Fair Launch and Core Principles
| Bitmark Development Team
| Informational
| Final
|- style="background-color: #cfffcf"
| [[bip-0101.mediawiki|101]]
| Consensus (hard fork)
| Multi-Algorithm Proof-of-Work (mPoW)
| Bitmark Development Team
| Standards Track
| Final
|- style="background-color: #cfffcf"
| [[bip-0102.mediawiki|102]]
| Consensus (hard fork)
| Coin Emission Model (CEM)
| Bitmark Development Team
| Standards Track
| Final
|}

===Process (1-99)===

{| class="wikitable sortable" style="width: auto; text-align: center; font-size: smaller; table-layout: fixed;"
!Number
!Layer
!Title
!Owner
!Type
!Status
|- style="background-color: #ffcfcf"
| [[bip-0001.mediawiki|1]]
|
| BIP Purpose and Guidelines
| Bitmark Development Team
| Process
| Replaced
|- style="background-color: #cfffcf"
| [[bip-0002.mediawiki|2]]
|
| BIP process, revised
| Bitmark Development Team
| Process
| Active
|- style="background-color: #ffffcf"
| [[bip-0003.docx|3]]
|
| MARKS Exchange Implementation Proposal
| Victor Alejandro
| Proposal
| Draft
|- style="background-color: #ffffcf"
| [[bip-0004|4]]
|
| Documentation for MARKING / LN / Atomic Swaps / Tippin
| Victor Alejandro
| Documentation
| Draft
|- style="background-color: #ffffcf"
| [[bip-0005.mediawiki|5]]
|
| Reserved
|
|
| Draft
|}

==Status Legend==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Color !! Status !! Meaning
|-
| style="background-color: #cfffcf" | Green || Final/Active || Implemented and in use
|-
| style="background-color: #ffffcf" | Yellow || Draft/Proposed || Under development or review
|-
| style="background-color: #ffcfcf" | Red || Replaced/Rejected || No longer active
|}

==What is a BIP?==

A Bitmark Improvement Proposal (BIP) is a design document providing information to the Bitmark community, or describing a new feature for Bitmark or its processes or environment. The BIP should provide a concise technical specification of the feature and a rationale for the feature.

We intend BIPs to be the primary mechanisms for proposing new features, for collecting community input on an issue, and for documenting the design decisions that have gone into Bitmark. The BIP author is responsible for building consensus within the community and documenting dissenting opinions.

Because the BIPs are maintained as text files in a versioned repository, their revision history is the historical record of the feature proposal.

==BIP Types==

There are three kinds of BIP:

* '''Standards Track''' - Describes any change that affects most or all Bitmark implementations, such as a change to the network protocol, a change in block or transaction validity rules, or any change or addition that affects the interoperability of applications using Bitmark.
* '''Informational''' - Describes a Bitmark design issue, or provides general guidelines or information to the Bitmark community, but does not propose a new feature.
* '''Process''' - Describes a process surrounding Bitmark, or proposes a change to a process.

==BIP Workflow==

# Discuss idea on mailing list or GitHub
# Write draft BIP in mediawiki format
# Submit PR to [https://github.com/project-bitmark/BIP BIP repository]
# BIP editor assigns number and merges
# Community review and iteration
# Implementation (for Standards Track)
# Activation (for consensus changes)

==BIP Format==

BIPs should be written in mediawiki format with the following sections:

* '''Preamble''' - Headers containing metadata (BIP number, title, author, status, type, created date, license)
* '''Abstract''' - Short (~200 word) description
* '''Motivation''' - Why the existing protocol is inadequate
* '''Specification''' - Technical details
* '''Rationale''' - Design decisions and alternatives considered
* '''Backwards Compatibility''' - Impact on existing systems
* '''Reference Implementation''' - Code (required for Final status)
* '''Copyright''' - License terms

==Contact==

* BIP Editor: [mailto:devteam@bitmark.io devteam@bitmark.io]
* GitHub: [https://github.com/project-bitmark/BIP project-bitmark/BIP]
* Discussion: [https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=660544.0 Bitcointalk Thread]

==See Also==

* [[bip-0002.mediawiki|BIP 2: BIP Process (detailed)]]
* [https://github.com/project-bitmark/bitmark Bitmark Source Code]

==Copyright==

This document is licensed under the BSD-2-Clause license.
